# Contributing Code
Tanagra is currently being developed by Verily and VUMC.
The project is shared across the All Of Us and Terra partnerships.

## Development

### Broad Credentials
Some tests talk to the `broad-tanagra-dev` GCP project. You need permissions on this project in order to run these 
tests locally. If you can't get permissions on this project (e.g. you do not have a Broad Institute email or access to
Vault), then **you can push your code up in a PR and a GitHub action will run the tests for you**.

(TODO: Tag the tests that require these credentials, so they're easy to skip if you don't have access to this project
but still want to run the other tests locally.)

Fetch the tanagra-dev service account key file from Vault.
```
vault login -method=github token=$(cat ~/.github-token)
./pull-credentials.sh
```
If you have trouble logging into Vault, here are some troubleshooting links:
- Link your GH account to your Broad account ([https://github.broadinstitute.org/](https://github.broadinstitute.org/)).
- Authenticate to Vault using your GitHub credentials ([https://github.com/broadinstitute/dsde-toolbox#authenticating-to-vault](https://github.com/broadinstitute/dsde-toolbox#authenticating-to-vault)).

Use the key file to set the `gcloud` application default credentials.
```
export GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS=$(pwd)/rendered/tanagra_sa.json
```

### Make scripts executable
There are several helper scripts for local development. Make them all executable after pulling from GH.
```
chmod a+x ./api/local-dev/*
```

### Local Postgres
Tests and a local server use a local Postgres database.

To start a postgres container configured with the necessary databases:
```
./api/local-dev/run_postgres.sh start
```
To stop the container:
```
./api/local-dev/run_postgres.sh stop
```
Note that the contents of the database are not saved between container runs.

To connect to the database directly:
```
PGPASSWORD=dbpwd psql postgresql://127.0.0.1:5432/tanagra_db -U dbuser
```
If you get not found errors running the above command, but the `run_postgres.sh` script calls complete successfully,
check that you don't have PostGres running twice -- e.g. once in Docker and once in a local PostGres installation.

### Build And Run Tests
To get started, build the code and run tests:
```
./gradlew api:build
```

Before a PR can merge, it needs to pass the static analysis checks and tests. To run the checks and tests locally:
```
./gradlew api:clean api:check
```

### Local Server
```
./api/local-dev/run_server.sh
```
starts a local server on `localhost:8080`.

See [http://localhost:8080/swagger-ui.html](http://localhost:8080/swagger-ui.html) for the Swagger API page.

### Adding dependencies
**UPDATE: Dependency locking has been temporarily disabled because it's causing problems for collaborators. 
Planning to debug and add this back once we've debugged the problems.**

We use [Gradle dependency locking](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/dependency_locking.html)
for building with deterministic dependencies. When adding a new dependency, use
```
./gradlew api:dependencies --write-locks
```
to regenerate the `gradle.lockfile` with the added dependencies. If this is not done, building will
error about
> Could not resolve all files for configuration...
> 
> Resolved foo.bar:lib:version which is not part of the dependency lock state

### Generate SQL Golden Files
Some tests compare the SQL string generated by the backend code with an expected string, stored in a golden file.
An example test is `bio.terra.tanagra.aousynthethic.BrandEntityQueriesTest.generateSqlForAllBrandEntities` and
the accompanying golden file is `api/src/test/resources/aousynthetic.all-brand-entities.sql`.

To regenerate the golden files, run the tests with the `generateSqlFiles` Gradle project property set. e.g.:
```
./gradlew cleanTest api:test --tests bio.terra.tanagra.aousynthetic.* --info -PgenerateSqlFiles=true
```

## Service Images
Docker images for the backend service are hosted at [gcr.io/broad-dsp-gcr-public/tanagra-api](gcr.io/broad-dsp-gcr-public/tanagra-api).
